Your ultimate goal when it comes to
growing muscle is you want to show the
musculature really the central nervous
system. The amount of muscle you have is
not enough for what you're trying to do.
And the only medium of communication you
have with your central nervous system is
intensity.
Today we're going to talk about tips for
lifters who are not seeing results. My
name is Dr. John Jquish. I'm a doctor of
biomedical engineering. I have a very
different perspective because of my
background in developing medical devices
and other areas of science that I
participated in. I've written scientific
documentation with NASA scientists. I've
participated in different projects
relating to health of astronauts and
space travel specifically with bone
density. I want to share all this
knowledge and my different perspective
with everyone out there who's trying to
get as fit as possible. My real passion,
my favorite audience is the people who
are probably somewhere between 90 and
99% of the population who fit the
description of ladies and gentlemen who
go into a fitness facility, work out for
months on end, and see absolutely no
results. So, there's an amazing
statistic that was put together by
lifehack.com.
90% of
people quit their fitness program within
90 days of starting. Now, do they quit
because they got great results? Probably
not. They probably got zero results. I
would guess there's also somewhere
between five and maybe 9% of people who
don't get any results yet still continue
to go thinking that somehow it's just
all going to happen one day and it
won't.
So, why are individuals not seeing
results? It's a complicated subject. It
was actually in the last chapter of my
book, Weightlifting is a Waste of Time.
And uh it's funny, I left it towards the
end because I knew it was going to be
the most criticized and I want people to
get through the more exciting
information before figuring out what's
wrong with most people. And I shouldn't
say wrong, but I it's most people will
understand where I'm going with it. Uh
there is a very small population that
has
advantageous attachment points for
tendons in the body. If you have a
tendon
insertion that allows you more leverage
on the muscle, you fire more of the
muscle in your weaker range of motion.
So for example, it most of us have a
tendon insertion for our pectoral the
origin of the pectoral in the center of
the chest. You have an insertion towards
the top of the uh the uh the humorus
underneath the bicep. However, if you're
genetically gifted, it could be further
down, which means you have a lever
that's made out of the most elastic
material in the world. So when you come
down on a bench press, your body is
primed to spring back in position. Now
these people who have this
genetic situation, they don't know they
have that when they go into a gym or
wherever doing some heavy exercise, they
grow muscle because they're fatiguing
more muscle in the stretched range of
motion. So you've seen a lot of hype
about that stretched range of motion.
It's the most anabolic position of the
rough. So, the hype is hype, but there's
real science there and it's very
important. And I've actually personally
worked with Dr. Milo Wolf, who is the
top researcher on on that subject in
sports performance. We frequently
discuss the importance of that position
and strategies to get to that position,
maximizing gains while minimizing injury
risk. because that stretch position is
also where you injure. So, it's a
balancing act where you want to have the
most fatigue there, but you also want to
have the lowest chance of injuring
yourself because
ultimately some sometimes lifters will
say like, oh, you know, forget injury
risk, just go for it. Yeah, but then
when you get injured and you can't
train. So, your your goal is to be
better long term. And that no doubt is
your goal. Otherwise, you wouldn't be
watching this video. You got to have a
strategy where you're maximizing gains,
minimizing risks. When you when you meet
older athletes, this is something I do
when I talk about my approach. I I meet
a guy who has a really strong bench
press and I said, "Do me a favor. Put
your arm up like this. Most strong guys,
they can't do that." In fact, Bill
Casmire, one of the strongest people
who's ever lived, when he wants to take
a picture with somebody, he's he's a big
guy. He's tall, taller than me. and I'm
almost 6'1. So he he goes next to
somebody and he actually tilts his whole
body. Then he lifts his arm up to put
around them so he can have his arm
around somebody in a picture. You see
what's wrong there? The guy has almost
no mobility in his shoulder because the
joint is so damaged and it almost brings
tears to his eyes to just take his
t-shirt off because he's got to lift his
arms over his head. So you don't want
this to happen to you. But you still
want to keep making progress. So if
you're not seeing results, you might
just be in that 90% of people just
doesn't adapt to weights very well.
Well, I've got a phenomenal answer for
you. And this also seems to be my answer
to a lot of things, but each of those
things might have some different
reasons. So bear with me. Variable
resistance. I've never met a person that
did not adapt to variable resistance. So
this is resistance that changes as you
move. So one of the studies I did years
ago was a clinical trial for medical
device that I invented uh that's now
called osteo strong. There's 300 clinics
in 15 different countries that allow
people access treated over a million
people for uh bone loss. It's typically
a post-menopausal problem. So women over
50 years old but everybody can get a
benefit from this and build their bone
density to be stronger. So the principle
is loading in the position that you
naturally absorb high impact. So for the
upper extremities, you see the back of
my hand in line of my clavicle 120°
angle from upper to lower arm. That is
where you either absorb or produce the
greatest amount of force. When looking
at the differences of
positions, you want to load the body so
that what you're doing is difficult in
all positions. Lifting a regular
weight's only difficult back here. In
fact, if you can handle it back here,
then it's easy for the rest of the
movement. So in
essence, it's only relevant when it's in
that lengthened range of motion, which
is why some people, especially when they
don't have access to heavy weights, like
you see uh inmates when they do
push-ups, they only lift themselves a
few inches off the ground, they're
trying to only do the difficult part of
the movement because that's the only
place where the weight is relevant in
the first place. The better way is to
load the body in accordance to your
biomechanic candy. So very high weight
here, sort of a normal weight here and a
little bit lighter here. So you go
easier on the joints, but after you've
exhausted the stronger range of motion
and the middle range of motion, then you
get to the stretch range of motion,
you're already pre-exhausted with all
the other tissue that has called
themselves out. Basically the way it
works is once a cell becomes exhausted
if it participates less in the movement
and so it's been stimulated already. At
that point you're trying to just
stimulate the other cells that happen.
You can't feel this happening. I mean
other than velocity changes and you you
can't lift as much as fast and that's
really a feeling but you don't really
know what cells are happening. is just
not there's no like no feedback for
that. The fact that you might not have
an advantageous tendon layout doesn't
make any difference because you're
offloading when you get to the point of
exhausting that stretch stretched range
of motion so that it's your maximum
potential when you go to here here and
as you come back a typical set of chest
press for me I'll go to fatigue five
times in one set and that's five times
with a fresh muscle that's full of glyco
EN which means I can really put my
maximum effort into all those
experiences so that I'm basically
getting the benefit of multiple
sets in one set and then if I add like
rest pause and it's kind of an advanced
technique so we'll get to that in
another video but it's a way to increase
the intensity and shorten the workout
time because ultimately the greater
amount of work and the smaller amount of
time is a more intense exposure to the
stimuli. Your ultimate goal when it
comes to growing muscle is you want to
show the musculature really the central
nervous
system that the amount of muscle you
have is not enough for what you're
trying to do. And the
only medium of communication you have
with your central nervous system is
intensity. So if you're showing the
central nervous system that greatest
efforts multiple times that are kind of
close together that you don't have
enough musculature to try and get to
what what you're trying to do. You go
you go to fatigue. So the body knows
okay fatigue muscle multiple times we
need to add more tissue here. Now
there's two two types of growth that
happens. There's sorpoplasmic and
myofibbrin growth. I'll get into those
in a different video, but just showing
the body that deficit in a short period
of time. So,
intensity, this is what the body sees as
the language of, oh, okay, we need to
grow. That's how that happens. And when
you're doing it with variable
resistance, if you're one of those
people who just doesn't respond well to
weights or you haven't been responding
or you've been on a plateau, this will
bust through that plateau and allow you
to get to your genetic potential. You
will do phenomenal. If this video helped
you, I want you to subscribe and follow.
I'm going to put out videos on a regular
basis. I think they're going to help a
whole lot of people, especially if
you're one of those people that doesn't
just instantly grow from lifting regular
weights. We've got the answer for you.